Migrating from dockershim documentation (#25787)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/find-if-you-affected.md

---

> title: Finding if you are affected by dockershim deprecation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Check whether Dockershim deprecation affects you
```

content_type: task 
reviewers:
- SergeyKanzhelev
weight: 20
---

<!-- overview -->

> This is very unlikely that your application has a dependency on dockershim. In
> order to understand how your cluster or apps may acquire dependency on Docker as
> a container runtime, you need to understand what role dockershim plays when
> container is being scheduled on the node.

Reviewer: I suggest:
```suggestion
{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.20" state="deprecated" >}}

The `dockershim` component of Kubernetes implements a
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="cri" text="Container Runtime Interface">}} (CRI) integration with Docker.
Kubernetes' built-in `dockershim` component was deprecated in release v1.20.

This page explains how your cluster could be using Docker as a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime" >}},
provides details on the role that `dockershim` plays when in use, and shows steps
you can take to check whether any workloads could be affected.
```

## Container runtimes

> [Container runtime](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes/) is a software that can schedule Pods. Kubernetes is responsible for orchestration of application Pods, and uses CRI (container runtime interface) to communicate to container runtime to actually schedule these Pods and get their status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [container runtime](/docs/concepts/containers/#container-runtimes) is software that can
execute the containers that make up a Kubernetes pod. Kubernetes is responsible for orchestration
and scheduling of Pods; on each node, the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}
uses the container runtime interface as an abstraction so that you can use any compatible
container runtime.
```

> There are various container runtimes, each has special features and decide on tradeoffs they make between performance, security and functionality. Dockershim is a first container runtime used by Kubernetes. When dockershim is used as a container runtime, kubelet communicates with Docker to schedule containers and check on it’s status. Docker in its turn uses Containerd to actually schedule containers, while also making these containers visible for Docker tooling and UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In its earliest releases, Kubernetes offered compatibility with just one container runtime: Docker.
Later in the Kubernetes project's history, cluster operators wanted to adopt additional container runtimes.
The CRI was designed to allow this kind of flexibility - and the kubelet began supporting CRI. However,
because Docker existed before the CRI specification was invented, the Kubernetes project created an
adapter component, “dockershim”. The dockershim adapter allows the kubelet to interact with Docker as
if Docker were a CRI compatible runtime.
```

![Dockershim vs. CRI with Containerd](/images/blog/2018-05-24-kubernetes-containerd-integration-goes-ga/cri-containerd.png)

Switching to containerd as a container runtime eliminates the middleman. All the
same containers can be run by container runtimes like Containerd as before. But
now, since containers were scheduled directly with the container runtime, they
are not visible to Docker. So any Docker tooling or fancy UI you might have used
before to check on these containers is no longer available.

You cannot get container information using `docker ps` or `docker inspect`
commands. As you cannot list containers, you cannot get logs, stop containers,
or execute something with `docker exec`.

{{< note >}}

Stopping containers via Docker CLI was never a good idea as it is
better to allow Kubernetes to orchestrate them. So you don’t confuse Kubernetes
by disappearing containers.

{{< /note >}}

You can still pull images or build them using `docker build` command. But images
built or pulled by Docker would not be visible to container runtime and
Kubernetes. They needed to be pushed to some registry to allow them to be used

> by kubernetes.

Reviewer: I'd either move this to the end of the task, or omit it. Readers are likely to be keen to get to the meat of the page; that is, “Finding if your app has a dependency on Docker”.

Author: moved to the end and rephrased. Good suggestion

## Finding if your app has a dependencies on Docker

1. Make sure no privileged Pods executing Docker commands
2. Check that scripts and apps running on nodes outside of Kubernetes
   infrastructure do not execute docker commands. It might be:
   - SSH to nodes to troubleshoot
   - Node startup scripts
   - Monitoring and security agents installed on nodes directly
3. Third-party tools that perform above mentioned privileged operations. See
   [Migrating telemetry and security agents from

>    dockershim](migrating-telemetry-and-security-agents.md) for more information.

Reviewer: nit: broken hyperlink

Author: do you mean `.md`? Always forgetting. Sorry if it is being annoying.
